knx/README.md, before:

# KNX

Info
=============
This plugin send and receive messages to and from knx bus.


Requirements
=============
This plugin needs a running eibd or knxd.

Configuration
=============

plugin.conf
-----------

<pre>
[knx]
   class_name = KNX
   class_path = plugins.knx
#   host = 127.0.0.1
#   port = 6720
   send_time = 600 # update date/time every 600 seconds, default none
   time_ga = 1/1/1 # default none
   date_ga = 1/1/2 # default none
#   busmonitor = False
#   readonly = False
</pre>

This plugins is looking by default for the eibd on 127.0.0.1 port 6720. You could change this in your plugin.conf.
If you specify a `send_time` intervall and a `time_ga` and/or `date_ga` the plugin sends the time/date every cycle seconds on the bus.

If you set `busmonitor` to True, every KNX packet will be logged.
If you set `readonly` to True, the plugin only read the knx bus and send no group message to the bus.

items.conf
--------------

### knx_dpt
This attribute is mandatory. If you don't provide one the item will be ignored.
The DPT has to match the type of the item!

The following datapoint types are supported:

+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| DPT    | Data    | Type | Values                           |
+========+=========+======+==================================+
| 1      | 1 bit   | bool | True &#124; False                |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 2      | 2 bit   | list | [0, 0] - [1, 1]                  |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 3      | 4 bit   | list | [0, 0] - [1, 7]                  |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 4.002  | 8 bit   | str  | 1 character (8859_1) e.g. 'c'    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 5      | 8 bit   | num  | 0 - 255                          |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 5.001  | 8 bit   | num  | 0 - 100                          |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 6      | 8 bit   | num  | -128 - 127                       |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 7      | 2 byte  | num  | 0 - 65535                        |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 8      | 2 byte  | num  | -32768 - 32767                   |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 9      | 2 byte  | num  | -671088,64 - 670760,96           |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 10     | 3 byte  | foo  | datetime.time                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 11     | 3 byte  | foo  | datetime.date                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 12     | 4 byte  | num  | 0 - 4294967295                   |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 13     | 4 byte  | num  | -2147483648 - 2147483647         |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 14     | 4 byte  | num  | 4-Octet Float Value IEEE 754     |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 16     | 14 byte | str  | 14 characters (ASCII)            |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 16.001 | 14 byte | str  | 14 characters (8859_1)           |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 17     | 8 bit   | num  | Scene: 0 - 63                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 20     | 8 bit   | num  | HVAC: 0 - 255                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 24     | var     | str  | ulimited string (8859_1)         |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 232    | 3 byte  | list | RGB: [0, 0, 0] - [255, 255, 255] |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+

If you are missing one, open a bug report or drop me a message in the knx user forum.

### knx_send
You could specify one or more group addresses to send updates to. Item update will only be sent if the item is not changed via KNX.

### knx_status
Similar to knx_send but will send updates even for changes vie KNX if the knx_status GA differs from the destination GA.

### knx_listen
You could specify one or more group addresses to monitor for changes.

### knx_init
If you set this attribute, SmartHomeNG sends a read request to specified group address at startup and set the value of the item to the response.
It implies 'knx_listen'.

### knx_cache
If you set this attribute, SmartHomeNG tries to read the cached value for the group address. If it fails it sends a read request to specified group address at startup and set the value of the item to the response.
It implies 'knx_listen'.

### knx_reply
Specify one or more group addresses to allow reading the item value.

# Example
<pre>
[living_room]
    [[light]]
        type = bool
        knx_dpt = 1
        knx_send = 1/1/3
        knx_listen = 1/1/4 | 1/1/5
        knx_init = 1/1/4

    [[temperature]]
        type = num
        knx_dpt = 9
        knx_send = 1/1/6
        knx_reply = 1/1/6
        ow_id = 28.BBBBB20000 # see 1-Wire plugin
        ow_sensor = temperature # see 1-Wire plugin
</pre>

logic.conf
----------
You could specify the `knx_listen` and `knx_reply` attribute to every logic in your logic.conf. The argument could be a single group address and dpt or a list of them.
<pre>
[logic1]
    knx_dpt = 9
    knx_listen = 1/1/7

[logic2]
    knx_dpt = 9
    knx_reply = 1/1/8 | 1/1/8
</pre>
If there is a packet directed to the according group address, SmartHomeNG would trigger the logic and will pass the payload (via the trigger object) to the logic.

In the context of the KNX plugin the trigger dictionary consists of the following elements:

* trigger['by']     protocol ('KNX')
* trigger['source']     PA (physical adress of the KNX packet source) 
* trigger['value']     payload

Functions
=========

encode(data, dpt)
-----------------
This function encodes your data according to the specified datapoint.
<pre>data = sh.knx.encode(data, 9)</pre>

groupwrite(ga, data, dpt)
-------------------------
With this function you could send the data to the specified group address.
<pre>sh.knx.groupwrite('1/1/10', 10.3, '9')</pre>

groupread(ga, cache=False)
--------------------------
This function triggers a read request on the specified group address. It doesn't return the received value!

send_time(time_ga, date_ga)
-----------------------------
This funcion send the current time and or date to the specified group address.
<pre>sh.knx.send_time('1/1/1', '1/1/2') # send the time to 1/1/1 and the date to 1/1/2
sh.knx.send_time('1/1/1') # only send the time to 1/1/1
sh.knx.send_time(data_ga='1/1/2') # only send the date to 1/1/2
</pre>
Hint: instead of this function you could use the plugin attribute 'send_time' as described above.

Commit message:

busmonitor can now write to a separate logger 'knx_busmonitor'. See README.md

knx/README.md, after:

# KNX

Info
=============
This plugin send and receive messages to and from knx bus.


Requirements
=============
This plugin needs a running eibd or knxd.

Configuration
=============

plugin.conf
-----------

<pre>
[knx]
   class_name = KNX
   class_path = plugins.knx
#   host = 127.0.0.1
#   port = 6720
#   send_time = 600 # update date/time every 600 seconds, default none
#   time_ga = 1/1/1 # default none
#   date_ga = 1/1/2 # default none
#   busmonitor = False
#   readonly = False
</pre>

This plugins is looking by default for the eibd on 127.0.0.1 port 6720. You could change this in your plugin.conf.
If you specify a `send_time` intervall and a `time_ga` and/or `date_ga` the plugin sends the time/date every cycle seconds on the bus.

`busmonitor=' : Values: (True, False, 'logger') When you set `busmonitor` to True, every KNX packet will be logged to the default plugin logger.
                Set parameter to `busmonitor = 'logger'` to log all knx messages to a separate logger 'knx_busmonitor'
                     In `logging.yaml` you can configure a formatter, handler and a logger to write all bus messages to a separate file.
                     <pre>
                     formatters:
                         busmonitor:
                            format: '%(asctime)s;%(message)s'
                            datefmt: '%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S'
                     handlers:
                         busmonitor_file:
                            class: logging.handlers.TimedRotatingFileHandler
                            formatter: busmonitor
                            when: midnight
                            backupCount: 7
                            filename: ./var/log/knx_busmonitor.log
                     loggers:
                         knx_busmonitor:
                            level: INFO
                            handlers: [busmonitor_file]
                    </pre>

                    With this configuration all bus monitor messages are writen to `./var/log/knx_busmonitor.log`

                False disable the logging until you start SmartHomeNG in debug modus.

`readonly=` : If you set `readonly` to True, the plugin only read the knx bus and send no group message to the bus.

items.conf
--------------

### knx_dpt
This attribute is mandatory. If you don't provide one the item will be ignored.
The DPT has to match the type of the item!

The following datapoint types are supported:

+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| DPT    | Data    | Type | Values                           |
+========+=========+======+==================================+
| 1      | 1 bit   | bool | True &#124; False                |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 2      | 2 bit   | list | [0, 0] - [1, 1]                  |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 3      | 4 bit   | list | [0, 0] - [1, 7]                  |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 4.002  | 8 bit   | str  | 1 character (8859_1) e.g. 'c'    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 5      | 8 bit   | num  | 0 - 255                          |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 5.001  | 8 bit   | num  | 0 - 100                          |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 6      | 8 bit   | num  | -128 - 127                       |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 7      | 2 byte  | num  | 0 - 65535                        |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 8      | 2 byte  | num  | -32768 - 32767                   |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 9      | 2 byte  | num  | -671088,64 - 670760,96           |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 10     | 3 byte  | foo  | datetime.time                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 11     | 3 byte  | foo  | datetime.date                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 12     | 4 byte  | num  | 0 - 4294967295                   |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 13     | 4 byte  | num  | -2147483648 - 2147483647         |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 14     | 4 byte  | num  | 4-Octet Float Value IEEE 754     |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 16     | 14 byte | str  | 14 characters (ASCII)            |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 16.001 | 14 byte | str  | 14 characters (8859_1)           |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 17     | 8 bit   | num  | Scene: 0 - 63                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 20     | 8 bit   | num  | HVAC: 0 - 255                    |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 24     | var     | str  | ulimited string (8859_1)         |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+
| 232    | 3 byte  | list | RGB: [0, 0, 0] - [255, 255, 255] |
+--------+---------+------+----------------------------------+

If you are missing one, open a bug report or drop me a message in the knx user forum.

### knx_send
You could specify one or more group addresses to send updates to. Item update will only be sent if the item is not changed via KNX.

### knx_status
Similar to knx_send but will send updates even for changes vie KNX if the knx_status GA differs from the destination GA.

### knx_listen
You could specify one or more group addresses to monitor for changes.

### knx_init
If you set this attribute, SmartHomeNG sends a read request to specified group address at startup and set the value of the item to the response.
It implies 'knx_listen'.

### knx_cache
If you set this attribute, SmartHomeNG tries to read the cached value for the group address. If it fails it sends a read request to specified group address at startup and set the value of the item to the response.
It implies 'knx_listen'.

### knx_reply
Specify one or more group addresses to allow reading the item value.

# Example
<pre>
[living_room]
    [[light]]
        type = bool
        knx_dpt = 1
        knx_send = 1/1/3
        knx_listen = 1/1/4 | 1/1/5
        knx_init = 1/1/4

    [[temperature]]
        type = num
        knx_dpt = 9
        knx_send = 1/1/6
        knx_reply = 1/1/6
        ow_id = 28.BBBBB20000 # see 1-Wire plugin
        ow_sensor = temperature # see 1-Wire plugin
</pre>

logic.conf
----------
You could specify the `knx_listen` and `knx_reply` attribute to every logic in your logic.conf. The argument could be a single group address and dpt or a list of them.
<pre>
[logic1]
    knx_dpt = 9
    knx_listen = 1/1/7

[logic2]
    knx_dpt = 9
    knx_reply = 1/1/8 | 1/1/8
</pre>
If there is a packet directed to the according group address, SmartHomeNG would trigger the logic and will pass the payload (via the trigger object) to the logic.

In the context of the KNX plugin the trigger dictionary consists of the following elements:

* trigger['by']     protocol ('KNX')
* trigger['source']     PA (physical adress of the KNX packet source) 
* trigger['value']     payload

Functions
=========

encode(data, dpt)
-----------------
This function encodes your data according to the specified datapoint.
<pre>data = sh.knx.encode(data, 9)</pre>

groupwrite(ga, data, dpt)
-------------------------
With this function you could send the data to the specified group address.
<pre>sh.knx.groupwrite('1/1/10', 10.3, '9')</pre>

groupread(ga, cache=False)
--------------------------
This function triggers a read request on the specified group address. It doesn't return the received value!

send_time(time_ga, date_ga)
-----------------------------
This funcion send the current time and or date to the specified group address.
<pre>sh.knx.send_time('1/1/1', '1/1/2') # send the time to 1/1/1 and the date to 1/1/2
sh.knx.send_time('1/1/1') # only send the time to 1/1/1
sh.knx.send_time(data_ga='1/1/2') # only send the date to 1/1/2
</pre>
Hint: instead of this function you could use the plugin attribute 'send_time' as described above.
