visu/README_for_developers.md, before:

# Visualisation plugin

```
 
Copyright 2012-2013 Marcus Popp                  marcus@popp.mx
Copyright 2016- Martin Sinn                      m.sinn@gmx.de

This plugin is part of SmartHome.py.
  
Visit:  https://github.com/smarthomeNG/
        https://knx-user-forum.de/forum/supportforen/smarthome-py

```

This file gives **smarthome.py** developers additional information about the visu plugin. For information about the configuration of the plugin refer to **README.md**.

This file describes the widget handling for smartVISU widgets and the protocol of the WebSocket interface.


# Files of the Plugin
The plugin is made up by several files, which are described below.


## __ init __.py
Main file of the plugin. It implements the WebSocket Interface.

## smartvisu.py
This file contains the code for interfacing with smartVISU.

## sv_widgets.py
This file implements the smartVISU widget handling of the visu plugin.

## generator.py
This file contains code for generating a visu, if not using smartVISU. The was the way to create a visualization before the Interfacing with smartVISU was done.

It is unknown if the code is functional, because it hasn't been tested.


# Handling of smartVISU widgets
The visu plugin handles widgets, which a plugin developer delivers with the plugin he has written. For this to wirk, the attribute **`smartvisu_dir`** in the visu section of **`plugin.conf`** must be set. 

At this stage the visu plugin doesn't handle widgets that define their own Javascript or css. It copies the files to smartVISU but it doesn't install the Javascript or css code in smartVISU.

## Add a widget to a plugin
A developer of a plugin can add widgets to the plugin. He has to create a directory named **sv_widgets** in his plugin directory and add the file(s) of the widget to that directory.

All files in the **sv_widgets** directory are copied to the smartVISU installation.

A widget html-file may contain multiple widgets.

For further automatic integration the widget must follow a name convention. It must be named **`widget_<class>.html`**. Where **`<class>`** is the class name for the import statement in smartVISU. If this convention is followed, a statement in the form of 

```
	{% import "widget_<class>.html" as <class> %}
```
is generated. 

**Example**:
>For a file widget_hue.html the statement

>```
	{% import "widget_hue.html" as hue %}
```
is generated.
The widgets in that file can be called by the directives

```
	{{ hue.control( ... ) }}
 or
	{{ hue.control_group( ... ) }}
```


## Modifications to smartVISU made by the visu plugin
For this functionality to work, smarthome.py must have write access to the smartVISU directory structure. The modifications to smartVISU are minimal invasive. The implementation may change, if smartVISU is forked.

The visu plugin creates a directory named **_sh_widgets** in the **widgets** directory of smartVISU. All files copied from the different plugins are stored in this directory.

On the first run the visu plugin creates a copy of the file **root.html** in the **pages/base** directory of smartVISU. The copied file is called **root_master.html**.

On each start of smarthome.py the visu plugin creates a new version of **root.html**. The new version is made of the contents of **root_master.html** and the necessary statements are inserted.

.

# WebSocket Interface

The visa plugin implements a WebSocket server. This section describes the implemented protocol. The messages of the protocol consist of data in jason format. Following are the request commands which the visu plugin handles. 


## item
With the **`item`** command a client requests to change the value of an item. The example requests the item with the id "wohnung.buero.schreibtischleuchte.onoff" to be turned off:

```
	{
	 "cmd":"item",
	 "id":"wohnung.buero.schreibtischleuchte.onoff",
	 "val":"0"
	}
```

The plugin does not send an answer to the **`item`** command.


## monitor
With the **`monitor`** command a client requests the actual value of a list of items. The list of the requested item names has to be comma seperated. Take a look at the following example:

```
	{
	 "cmd":"monitor",
	 "items":[
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.deckenlicht",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.status",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.ma",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.status",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.ma",
	 ]
	}
```	 

The plugin answers with a list of of pairs. Each pair consists of an item name and the corresponding value. This list is followed by the command-type which initiated this response. The answer to the request above could look like this:

```
	{
	 'items': [
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.deckenlicht', False], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine', True], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.status', 1], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.ma', 37], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner', True], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.status', 1], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.ma', 0], 
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'item'
	}
	 	
```


Additionally, the plugin initiates an update routine, which sends updates for item values, if the item in smarthome.py has changed. For example:

```
	{
	 'items': [
			['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.ma', 36]
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'item'
	}
```


## ping
With the **`ping`** command a client checks if the connection to the plugin is alive.

```
	{"cmd":"ping"}
```

The plugin answers with:

```
	{"cmd":"ping"}
```


## logic
With the **`logic`** command a client requests a logic to be triggered. **`name`** is the name of the logic, as defined in **`etc/logic.conf`**. Furthermore, in **`etc/logic.conf`** the attribute **`visu_acl`** for that logic has to be set to **True**.

```
	{"cmd":"logic",  "name":"az_licht",  "val":0}
```

Following information is passed to the logic via the trigger variable:

```
	trigger[source] = <ip:port of the client (visu)>
	trigger[by]     = 'Visu'
	trigger[value]  = <value, as defined in the logic-command>
```

The plugin does not send an answer to the **`logic`** command.


## series
With the **`series`** command a client requests a series of values for an item. The values which are requested are stored in a database using the sqlite plugin. The **`series`** command only returns data for items which are configured to store data via the **sqlite** plugin. 

SmartVISU uses the series command to get data for the plot widget. The following example requests a series of the average values of the last 48 hours:

```
	{
	 "cmd":"series",
	 "item":"wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung",
	 "series":"avg",
	 "start":"48h",
	 "end":"now",
	 "count":100
	}
```

The attribute **`series`** defines which function is used to return the values for the series. The possible functions are **min**, **max**, **avg** and **sum**. These functions are implemented in the **sqlite** plugin v1.0. The new sqlite plugin (v2.8) implements the functions **min**, **max**, **avg** and **on**. **on** returns the percentage (as float from 0.00 to 1.00) where the value has been greater than 0.

If the **`end`** attribute is ommitted, **"end":"now"** is assumed by the plugin.
If the **`count`** attribute is ommitted, **"count":100** is assumed by the plugin.

The answer to the request above could look like this:
 
```

	{
	 'series': [
	 	(1460636598495, 1831.97), 
	 	(1460637648422, 1458.14), 
	 	(1460639298307, 757.22), 
	 	(1460641098243, 577.38), 
	 	... (102 values in total)
	 	(1460802051217, 740.61), 
	 	(1460803884973, 637.61), 
	 	(1460805521319, 744.41), 
	 	(1460807229532, 718.03), 
	 	(1460808823757, 681.25), 
	 	(1460809294663, 681.25)
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'series', 
	 'params': {
	 	'end': 'now', 
	 	'start': 1460809294663, 
	 	'update': True, 
	 	'item': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung', 
	 	'step': 1728000.01, 
	 	'func': 'avg', 
	 	'sid': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung|avg|48h|now'
	 }, 
	 'update': "2016-04-16T21:14:50.20.8227+02:00",
	 'sid': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung|avg|48h|now'
	}

```

The plugin answers with a list of of pairs. Each pair consists of a timestamp and the corresponding value. This list is followed by the command-type which initiated this response and the parameters used to produce the series of data.

The last two attributes define an identifier for this series and a time at which an update is sent by the plugin.

Additionally, the plugin initiates an update routine, which sends updates for series values after a defined period of time. For example:

```
	{
	 'series': [
	 	(1460810141323, 711.25), 
	 	(1460811024119, 711.25)
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'series', 
	 'sid': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung|avg|48h|now'
	}
```


## log
With the **`log`** command a client requests the last entries of a specified log. The example command requests the last 5 log entries of the core log:

```
	{"cmd":"log","name":"env.core.log","max":"5"}
```

The plugin answers with a message like this:


```
	{
	 "init":"y",
	 "cmd":"log",
	 "name":"env.core.log",
	 "log":[
	 	{"message":"VISU: WebSocketHandler uses protocol version 4","level":"WARNING","thread":"Main","time":"2016-04-16T15:53:21.354815+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"Using sonos section [sonos_bo], sonos_uid = RINCON_B8E93792D35401400","level":"WARNING","thread":"myradio","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:28.980100+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"Mondaufgang um 15:26:50 bei Azimuth 76.9 und Monduntergang um 04:39:55 bei Azimuth 285.5","level":"WARNING","thread":"mysunmoon","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:27.678330+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"No broker url given, assuming current ip and default broker port: http://10.0.0.182:12900","level":"WARNING","thread":"Main","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:14.006478+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"mlgw: Serial number of ML Gateway is 22804066","level":"WARNING","thread":"Main","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:13.869275+02:00"}
	 ]
	}

```


## proto
With the **`proto`** command a client requests the WebSocket protocol version, it wants to use for communication:

```
	{"cmd":"proto","ver":4}
```

The plugin answers with the protocol version it supports. Additionally it sends the actual date time and timezone:


```
	{
	 "cmd": "proto", 
	 "ver": 4, 
	 "time":"2016-04-14T21:23:20.248227+02:00"
	}
```

Commit message:

- Added support for widgets with javascript & css - Added support for plugins running in multiple instances - Error Handling: Added some parameter checking

visu/README_for_developers.md, after:

# Visualisation plugin

```
 
Copyright 2012-2013 Marcus Popp                  marcus@popp.mx
Copyright 2016- Martin Sinn                      m.sinn@gmx.de

This plugin is part of SmartHome.py.
  
Visit:  https://github.com/smarthomeNG/
        https://knx-user-forum.de/forum/supportforen/smarthome-py

```

This file gives **smarthome.py** developers additional information about the visu plugin. For information about the configuration of the plugin refer to **README.md**.

This file describes the widget handling for smartVISU widgets and the protocol of the WebSocket interface.


# Files of the Plugin
The plugin is made up by several files, which are described below.


## __ init __.py
Main file of the plugin. It implements the WebSocket Interface.

## smartvisu.py
This file contains the code for interfacing with smartVISU.

## sv_widgets.py
This file implements the smartVISU widget handling of the visu plugin.

## generator.py
This file contains code for generating a visu, if not using smartVISU. The was the way to create a visualization before the Interfacing with smartVISU was done.

It is unknown if the code is functional, because it hasn't been tested.


# Handling of smartVISU widgets
The visu plugin handles widgets, which a plugin developer delivers with the plugin he has written. For this to wirk, the attribute **`smartvisu_dir`** in the visu section of **`plugin.conf`** must be set. 

It handles widgets that define their own Javascript or css. The Javascript and css files must follow the same naming convention as the html file.

## Add a widget to a plugin
A developer of a plugin can add widgets to the plugin. He has to create a directory named **sv_widgets** in his plugin directory and add the file(s) of the widget to that directory.

All files in the **sv_widgets** directory are copied to the smartVISU installation.

A widget html-file may contain multiple widgets.

For further automatic integration the widget must follow a name convention. It must be named **`widget_<class>.html`**. Where **`<class>`** is the class name for the import statement in smartVISU. If this convention is followed, a statement in the form of 

```
	{% import "widget_<class>.html" as <class> %}
```
is generated. 

**Example**:
>For a file **`widget_hue.html`** the statement

>```
	{% import "widget_hue.html" as hue %}
```
is generated.
The widgets in that file can be called by the directives

```
	{{ hue.control( ... ) }}
 or
	{{ hue.control_group( ... ) }}
```

If a Javascript file would exist for the hue widget, it would have to have the name  **`widget_hue.js`**. To include this file in smartVISU, the following lines are added to root.html:
>
>```
{% if isfile('widgets/sh_widgets/widget_hue.js') %}
	<script type="text/javascript" src="widgets/sh_widgets/widget_hue.js"></script>{% endif %}
```

The handling of a css file is analog to the Javascript handling.


## Modifications to smartVISU made by the visu plugin
For this functionality to work, smarthome.py must have write access to the smartVISU directory structure. The modifications to smartVISU are minimal invasive. The implementation may change, if smartVISU is forked.

The visu plugin creates a directory named **_sh_widgets** in the **widgets** directory of smartVISU. All files copied from the different plugins are stored in this directory.

On the first run the visu plugin creates a copy of the file **root.html** in the **pages/base** directory of smartVISU. The copied file is called **root_master.html**.

On each start of smarthome.py the visu plugin creates a new version of **root.html**. The new version is made of the contents of **root_master.html** and the necessary statements are inserted.

.

# WebSocket Interface

The visa plugin implements a WebSocket server. This section describes the implemented protocol. The messages of the protocol consist of data in jason format. Following are the request commands which the visu plugin handles. 


## item
With the **`item`** command a client requests to change the value of an item. The example requests the item with the id "wohnung.buero.schreibtischleuchte.onoff" to be turned off:

```
	{
	 "cmd":"item",
	 "id":"wohnung.buero.schreibtischleuchte.onoff",
	 "val":"0"
	}
```

The plugin does not send an answer to the **`item`** command.


## monitor
With the **`monitor`** command a client requests the actual value of a list of items. The list of the requested item names has to be comma seperated. Take a look at the following example:

```
	{
	 "cmd":"monitor",
	 "items":[
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.deckenlicht",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.status",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.ma",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.status",
		"wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.ma",
	 ]
	}
```	 

The plugin answers with a list of of pairs. Each pair consists of an item name and the corresponding value. This list is followed by the command-type which initiated this response. The answer to the request above could look like this:

```
	{
	 'items': [
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.deckenlicht', False], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine', True], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.status', 1], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.ma', 37], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner', True], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.status', 1], 
	 	['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.trockner.ma', 0], 
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'item'
	}
	 	
```


Additionally, the plugin initiates an update routine, which sends updates for item values, if the item in smarthome.py has changed. For example:

```
	{
	 'items': [
			['wohnung.hauswirtschaft.waschmaschine.ma', 36]
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'item'
	}
```


## ping
With the **`ping`** command a client checks if the connection to the plugin is alive.

```
	{"cmd":"ping"}
```

The plugin answers with:

```
	{"cmd":"ping"}
```


## logic
With the **`logic`** command a client requests a logic to be triggered. **`name`** is the name of the logic, as defined in **`etc/logic.conf`**. Furthermore, in **`etc/logic.conf`** the attribute **`visu_acl`** for that logic has to be set to **True**.

```
	{"cmd":"logic",  "name":"az_licht",  "val":0}
```

Following information is passed to the logic via the trigger variable:

```
	trigger[source] = <ip:port of the client (visu)>
	trigger[by]     = 'Visu'
	trigger[value]  = <value, as defined in the logic-command>
```

The plugin does not send an answer to the **`logic`** command.


## series
With the **`series`** command a client requests a series of values for an item. The values which are requested are stored in a database using the sqlite plugin. The **`series`** command only returns data for items which are configured to store data via the **sqlite** plugin. 

SmartVISU uses the series command to get data for the plot widget. The following example requests a series of the average values of the last 48 hours:

```
	{
	 "cmd":"series",
	 "item":"wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung",
	 "series":"avg",
	 "start":"48h",
	 "end":"now",
	 "count":100
	}
```

The attribute **`series`** defines which function is used to return the values for the series. The possible functions are **min**, **max**, **avg** and **sum**. These functions are implemented in the **sqlite** plugin v1.0. The new sqlite plugin (v2.8) implements the functions **min**, **max**, **avg** and **on**. **on** returns the percentage (as float from 0.00 to 1.00) where the value has been greater than 0.

If the **`end`** attribute is ommitted, **"end":"now"** is assumed by the plugin.
If the **`count`** attribute is ommitted, **"count":100** is assumed by the plugin.

The answer to the request above could look like this:
 
```

	{
	 'series': [
	 	(1460636598495, 1831.97), 
	 	(1460637648422, 1458.14), 
	 	(1460639298307, 757.22), 
	 	(1460641098243, 577.38), 
	 	... (102 values in total)
	 	(1460802051217, 740.61), 
	 	(1460803884973, 637.61), 
	 	(1460805521319, 744.41), 
	 	(1460807229532, 718.03), 
	 	(1460808823757, 681.25), 
	 	(1460809294663, 681.25)
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'series', 
	 'params': {
	 	'end': 'now', 
	 	'start': 1460809294663, 
	 	'update': True, 
	 	'item': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung', 
	 	'step': 1728000.01, 
	 	'func': 'avg', 
	 	'sid': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung|avg|48h|now'
	 }, 
	 'update': "2016-04-16T21:14:50.20.8227+02:00",
	 'sid': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung|avg|48h|now'
	}

```

The plugin answers with a list of of pairs. Each pair consists of a timestamp and the corresponding value. This list is followed by the command-type which initiated this response and the parameters used to produce the series of data.

The last two attributes define an identifier for this series and a time at which an update is sent by the plugin.

Additionally, the plugin initiates an update routine, which sends updates for series values after a defined period of time. For example:

```
	{
	 'series': [
	 	(1460810141323, 711.25), 
	 	(1460811024119, 711.25)
	 ], 
	 'cmd': 'series', 
	 'sid': 'wohnung.verteilung.zaehler.wirkleistung|avg|48h|now'
	}
```


## log
With the **`log`** command a client requests the last entries of a specified log. The example command requests the last 5 log entries of the core log:

```
	{"cmd":"log","name":"env.core.log","max":"5"}
```

The plugin answers with a message like this:


```
	{
	 "init":"y",
	 "cmd":"log",
	 "name":"env.core.log",
	 "log":[
	 	{"message":"VISU: WebSocketHandler uses protocol version 4","level":"WARNING","thread":"Main","time":"2016-04-16T15:53:21.354815+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"Using sonos section [sonos_bo], sonos_uid = RINCON_B8E93792D35401400","level":"WARNING","thread":"myradio","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:28.980100+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"Mondaufgang um 15:26:50 bei Azimuth 76.9 und Monduntergang um 04:39:55 bei Azimuth 285.5","level":"WARNING","thread":"mysunmoon","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:27.678330+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"No broker url given, assuming current ip and default broker port: http://10.0.0.182:12900","level":"WARNING","thread":"Main","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:14.006478+02:00"},
	 	{"message":"mlgw: Serial number of ML Gateway is 22804066","level":"WARNING","thread":"Main","time":"2016-04-16T15:52:13.869275+02:00"}
	 ]
	}

```


## proto
With the **`proto`** command a client requests the WebSocket protocol version, it wants to use for communication:

```
	{"cmd":"proto","ver":4}
```

The plugin answers with the protocol version it supports. Additionally it sends the actual date time and timezone:


```
	{
	 "cmd": "proto", 
	 "ver": 4, 
	 "time":"2016-04-14T21:23:20.248227+02:00"
	}
```
