xmpp/README.md, before:

# XMPP

## Requirements/Description

This Plugin uses sleekxmpp as basis to connect to XMPP etc services: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/sleekxmpp

At this stage the XMPP plugin module only supports in sending messages. Recevied messages are ignored. OTR not supported
as the sleekxmpp libraries do not support this as yet.

This Plugin can also be used to setup a standard logger category which
can be used to log messages using XMPP to some chat or groupchat contact.
The logging configuration looks like this:

```yaml
handlers:
    xmpp:
        class: plugins.xmpp.XMPPLogHandler
        formatter: shng_simple
        xmpp_plugin: xmpp
        xmpp_receiver: room@conference.example.com
        xmpp_receiver_type: groupchat
loggers:
    xmpp:
        handlers: [xmpp]
        level: WARN
```

This requires a XMPP plugin configured in a section named `xmpp`
which is used in the `xmpp_plugin` setting. The receiver and type needs
to be specified to configure the target receiving the log
messages.


## Configuration

### plugin.yaml

```yaml
xmpp:
    class_name: XMPP
    class_path: plugins.xmpp
    jid: 'user account eg skender@somexmppserver.com'
    password: your xmpp server password
    #use_ipv6: 1
    #plugins:
    #  - xep_0199  # MUC
    #  - xep_0045  # PING
```

Description of the attributes:

* jid: jabber/xmpp user account
* password: jabber/xmpp user password
* use_ipv6: enable IPv6 support, which is the default
* plugins: list of plugins (XEP to support)

### logic.yaml
At this stage there are no specific logic files. But in order to use this module you can create a logic file for another attribute and execute
or send messages to your xmpp account via sh.xmpp.send

## Functions
* sending a Message

```python
sh.xmpp.send("skender@somexmppserver.me", "ALARM: Triggered, Danger.", 'chat')
```

Send a message via xmpp
Requires:
        * mto = To whom eg 'skender@haxhimolla.im'
        * msgsend = body of the message eg 'Hello world'
        * mtype = message type, could be 'chat' or 'groupchat'


### Example for an action/logic file

```python
msg = trigger['value']

if sensor == "athome?":
    answer = "Someone has entered the house" if sh.myitem.athome() else "All secure"
    sh.xmpp.send("skender@haxhimolla.me", answer, 'chat')
```

Commit message:

OperationLog: Include complete log redirection to XMPP
The operation log can be used to configure a log. When logging to
a given log it is possible to configure a logger which is
additionally used when the log gets messages.

You can log the messages to a file or other handler. This example
describes logging the messages additionally though XMPP to a
XMPP contact

xmpp/README.md, after:

# XMPP

## Requirements/Description

This Plugin uses sleekxmpp as basis to connect to XMPP etc services: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/sleekxmpp

At this stage the XMPP plugin module only supports in sending messages. Recevied messages are ignored. OTR not supported
as the sleekxmpp libraries do not support this as yet.

This Plugin can also be used to setup a standard logger category which
can be used to log messages using XMPP to some chat or groupchat contact.
The logging configuration looks like this:

```yaml
handlers:
    xmpp:
        class: plugins.xmpp.XMPPLogHandler
        formatter: shng_simple
        xmpp_plugin: xmpp
        xmpp_receiver: room@conference.example.com
        xmpp_receiver_type: groupchat
loggers:
    xmpp:
        handlers: [xmpp]
        level: WARN
```

This requires a XMPP plugin configured in a section named `xmpp` (e.g.
see below for example) which is referenced in the `xmpp_plugin` setting.
The receiver and chat type needs to be specified to configure the target
contact receiving the messages.

It is also possible to log all messages to a given operation log instance
via XMPP. E.g. when having multiple operation logs configured, one for events
one for alarms, the alarms operation log can be send via XMPP when it
receives log messages:

```yaml
loggers:
    plugins.operationlog.alarms:
        handlers: [xmpp]
        level: INFO
```


## Configuration

### plugin.yaml

```yaml
xmpp:
    class_name: XMPP
    class_path: plugins.xmpp
    jid: 'user account eg skender@somexmppserver.com'
    password: your xmpp server password
    #use_ipv6: 1
    #plugins:
    #  - xep_0199  # MUC
    #  - xep_0045  # PING
```

Description of the attributes:

* jid: jabber/xmpp user account
* password: jabber/xmpp user password
* use_ipv6: enable IPv6 support, which is the default
* plugins: list of plugins (XEP to support)

### logic.yaml
At this stage there are no specific logic files. But in order to use this module you can create a logic file for another attribute and execute
or send messages to your xmpp account via sh.xmpp.send

## Functions
* sending a Message

```python
sh.xmpp.send("skender@somexmppserver.me", "ALARM: Triggered, Danger.", 'chat')
```

Send a message via xmpp
Requires:
        * mto = To whom eg 'skender@haxhimolla.im'
        * msgsend = body of the message eg 'Hello world'
        * mtype = message type, could be 'chat' or 'groupchat'


### Example for an action/logic file

```python
msg = trigger['value']

if sensor == "athome?":
    answer = "Someone has entered the house" if sh.myitem.athome() else "All secure"
    sh.xmpp.send("skender@haxhimolla.me", answer, 'chat')
```
