slack/README.md, before:

# smarthome-slack
Plugin to send push notifications to Slack 

## Installation
<pre>
cd smarthome.py directory
cd plugins
git clone https://github.com/rthill/slack.git
</pre>

## Configuration
### etc/plugin.yaml
<pre>
SlackInstance:
    class_name: Slack
    class_path: plugins.slack
    token: abc/def/ghi # Token for posting to workspace '<your_team>'
</pre>

## Usage
Generate a "incoming webhook" with a token using https://<your_team>.slack.com/apps/new/A0F7XDUAZ-incoming-webhooks. You need to select a single channel when generating the token, but the token can be used for posting to multiple channels in the same workspace.

If you want to send notifications to different workspaces you need to generate a token for each workspace and you need to configure a SlackInstance section for every workspace/token.

To send a notification use the following syntax in your logics with the first parameter being the desired channel:

<pre>
# Default informational notification to channel #general
sh.SlackInstance.notify('#general', 'Ding Dong: Front door')
# Or use the following to set the default notification type to normal
sh.SlackInstance.notify('#otherChannel', 'Ding Dong: Front door', 'normal')
# Other notification types use warning, danger or good.
sh.SlackInstance.notify('#differentChannel', 'Alarm: Garage door open', 'danger')
</pre>

Commit message:

README and plugin.yaml extended
Updated and extended README and plugin.yaml so that users can setup the plugin more easily and understand why they may need a second instance of this plugin.
Multi-instance can stay enabled this way.

slack/README.md, after:

# smarthome-slack
Plugin to send push notifications to Slack 

## Installation
<pre>
cd smarthome.py directory
cd plugins
git clone https://github.com/rthill/slack.git
</pre>

## Configuration
### etc/plugin.yaml
<pre>
SlackInstance:
    class_name: Slack
    class_path: plugins.slack
    token: abc/def/ghi # Token for posting to workspace '<your_team>'

# the following is only neccessary if you want to post to different Slack workspaces
SlackInstanceForSecondWorkspace:
    class_name: Slack
    class_path: plugins.slack
    token: jkl/mno/pqr # Token for posting to another workspace '<another_team>'
</pre>

## Usage
To enable posting to Slack you need to create an "incoming webhook" there, which gives you an authorization token.
Open the following URL for your team workspace and create a wehhook. Please select one channel of your workspace.
https://<your_team>.slack.com/apps/new/A0F7XDUAZ-incoming-webhooks.
Afterwards you need to setup your etc/plugin.yaml as described above and insert the webhook token.
The created API token authorizes posting to every channel in this workspace.

For most users a single instance would be sufficient.
If you want to send notifications to more than one Slack workspace, you need to generate a webhook / token in every Slack workspace.
For each of them you'll need to configure a section in plugin.yaml with different instance names.

To send a notification use the following syntax in your logics with the first parameter being the desired channel:

<pre>
# Default informational notification to channel #general
sh.SlackInstance.notify('#general', 'Ding Dong: Front door')
# Or use the following to set the default notification type to normal
sh.SlackInstance.notify('#otherChannel', 'Ding Dong: Front door', 'normal')
# Other notification types use warning, danger or good.
sh.SlackInstance.notify('#differentChannel', 'Alarm: Garage door open', 'danger')

# Sending a notification to the second workspace
sh.SlackInstanceForSecondWorkspace.notify('#general', 'Hello second workspace!')
</pre>
