sma/README.md, before:

# SMA

# Requirements

bluez

install by
<pre>
$ apt-get install bluez python-gobject python-dbus
$ hcitool scan
Scanning ...
        <bt-addr>       <name of your inverter, e.g. 'SMA001d SN: 213000xxxx SN213000xxxx'>
$ bluez-simple-agent hci0 <bt-addr>
RequestPinCode (/org/bluez/3070/hci0/dev_bt_addr_underscores)
Enter PIN Code: <pin-code>
Release
New device (/org/bluez/3070/hci0/dev_bt_addr_underscores)
$ bluez-test-device trusted <bt-addr> yes
$ bluez-test-device list
</pre>

## Supported Hardware

Tested with:
* SMA SunnyBoy 5000TL-21
* SMA Sunny Tripower 8000TL-10
* SMA Sunny Tripower 12000TL-10

Should work with other SMA inverters as well - please let me know!

# Configuration

## plugin.conf

<pre>
[sma]
    class_name = SMA
    class_path = plugins.sma
    bt_addr = 00:80:25:21:7F:58
#    password = 0000
#    update_cycle = 60
#    allowed_timedelta = 10
</pre>

Description of the attributes:

* __bt_addr__: MAC-address of the inverter (find out with 'hcitool scan')
* __password__: password for accessing the inverter in user-mode (default 0000)
* __update_cycle__: interval in seconds how often the data is read from the inverter (default 60)
* __allowed_timedelta__: allowed difference of inverter to system time - if above, inverter is set to system time - set to -1 to disable (default 60)

## items.conf

<pre>
[Inverter]
  [[Feeding_Power_in_W]]
    type = num
    sma = AC_P_TOTAL
  [[Daily_Yield_in_Wh]]
    type = num
    sma = E_DAY
  [[Total_Yield_in_Wh]]
    type = num
    sma = E_TOTAL
  [[Serial_Number]]
    type = num
    sma = INV_SERIAL
  [[MAC_Address]]
    type = str
    sma = INV_ADDRESS
  [[Last_Update_Of_Data]]
    type = str
    sma = LAST_UPDATE
  [[DC_Power_String1_in_W]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING1_P
  [[DC_Power_String2_in_W]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING2_P
  [[DC_Voltage_String1_in_V]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING1_U
  [[DC_Voltage_String2_in_V]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING2_U
  [[DC_Current_String1_in_A]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING1_I
  [[DC_Current_String2_in_A]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING2_I
  [[Operating_Time_in_s]]
    type = num
    sma = OPERATING_TIME
  [[Feeding_Time_in_s]]
    type = num
    sma = FEEDING_TIME
  [[Grid_Frequency_in_Hz]]
    type = num
    sma = GRID_FREQUENCY
  [[Inverter_Status]]
    type = str
    sma = STATUS
  [[Relais_Status]]
    type = str
    sma = GRID_RELAY
  [[Software_Version]]
    type = str
    sma = SW_VERSION
</pre>

Commit message:

update sma-plugin to enable disconnect during night-times

sma/README.md, after:

# SMA

# Requirements

bluez

install by
<pre>
$ apt-get install bluez python-gobject python-dbus
$ hcitool scan
Scanning ...
        <bt-addr>       <name of your inverter, e.g. 'SMA001d SN: 213000xxxx SN213000xxxx'>
$ bluez-simple-agent hci0 <bt-addr>
RequestPinCode (/org/bluez/3070/hci0/dev_bt_addr_underscores)
Enter PIN Code: <pin-code>
Release
New device (/org/bluez/3070/hci0/dev_bt_addr_underscores)
$ bluez-test-device trusted <bt-addr> yes
$ bluez-test-device list
</pre>

## Supported Hardware

Tested with:
* SMA SunnyBoy 5000TL-21
* SMA Sunny Tripower 8000TL-10
* SMA Sunny Tripower 12000TL-10

Should work with other SMA inverters as well - please let me know!

# Configuration

## plugin.conf

<pre>
[sma]
    class_name = SMA
    class_path = plugins.sma
    bt_addr = 00:80:25:21:7F:58
#    password = 0000
#    update_cycle = 60
#    allowed_timedelta = 10
</pre>

Description of the attributes:

* __bt_addr__: MAC-address of the inverter (find out with 'hcitool scan')
* __password__: password for accessing the inverter in user-mode (default 0000)
* __update_cycle__: interval in seconds how often the data is read from the inverter (default 60)
* __allowed_timedelta__: allowed difference of inverter to system time - if above, inverter is set to system time - set to -1 to disable (default 60)

## items.conf

The item having 'sma = PLUGIN_ACTIVE' can be set to True/False in order to connect/disconnect to the inverter during night. 

<pre>
[Inverter]
  [[Plugin_active]]
    type = bool
    sma = PLUGIN_ACTIVE
  [[Feeding_Power_in_W]]
    type = num
    sma = AC_P_TOTAL
  [[Daily_Yield_in_Wh]]
    type = num
    sma = E_DAY
  [[Total_Yield_in_Wh]]
    type = num
    sma = E_TOTAL
  [[Serial_Number]]
    type = num
    sma = INV_SERIAL
  [[MAC_Address]]
    type = str
    sma = INV_ADDRESS
  [[Last_Update_Of_Data]]
    type = str
    sma = LAST_UPDATE
  [[DC_Power_String1_in_W]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING1_P
  [[DC_Power_String2_in_W]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING2_P
  [[DC_Voltage_String1_in_V]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING1_U
  [[DC_Voltage_String2_in_V]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING2_U
  [[DC_Current_String1_in_A]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING1_I
  [[DC_Current_String2_in_A]]
    type = num
    sma = DC_STRING2_I
  [[Operating_Time_in_s]]
    type = num
    sma = OPERATING_TIME
  [[Feeding_Time_in_s]]
    type = num
    sma = FEEDING_TIME
  [[Grid_Frequency_in_Hz]]
    type = num
    sma = GRID_FREQUENCY
  [[Inverter_Status]]
    type = str
    sma = STATUS
  [[Relais_Status]]
    type = str
    sma = GRID_RELAY
  [[Software_Version]]
    type = str
    sma = SW_VERSION
</pre>
