mail/README.md, before:

# Mail

## Requirements

This plugin has no requirements or dependencies.

## Configuration

### plugin.conf (deprecated) / plugin.yaml

```
[mail]
    class_name = SMTP
    class_path = plugins.mail
    host = mail.example.com
    mail_from = mail@example.com
    # ssl = False
    # username = False
    # password = False

[imap]
    class_name = IMAP
    class_path = plugins.mail
    host = mail.example.com
    username = smarthome
    password = secret
    # ssl = False
    # port = default
    # cycle = 300
```

```yaml
mail:
    class_name: SMTP
    class_path: plugins.mail
    host: mail.example.com
    mail_from: mail@example.com

# ssl = False
# username = False
# password = False
imap:
    class_name: IMAP
    class_path: plugins.mail
    host: mail.example.com
    username: smarthome
    password: secret
    # ssl = False
    # port = default
    # cycle = 300
```

#### Attributes
  * `host`: specifies the hostname of your mail server.
  * `port`: if you want to use a nonstandard port.
  * `username`/`password`: login information
  * `ssl`: specifies if you want to use SSL/TLS.
  * `mail_from`: for SMTP you have to specify an origin mail address.
  * `cycle`: for IMAP you could specify the intervall how often the inbox is checked

### items.conf (deprecated) / items.yaml

There is no item specific configuration.

### logic.conf (deprecated) / logic.yaml

You could assign the following keywords to a logic. The matching order is as listed.

#### mail_subject

If the incoming mail subject matches the value of this key the logic will be triggerd.

#### mail_to

If the mail is sent to specified address the logic will be triggerd.

#### mail

A genric flag to trigger the logic on receiving a mail.

Attention:
   * You could only call one logic per mail!
   * If a mail is processed by a logic it will be delteted (moved to Deleted folder).
   * There is no email security. You have to use an infrastructure which provides security (e.g. own mail server which only accepts authenticated messages for the inbox).

```
[sauna]
    filename = sauna.py
    mail_to = sauna@example.com

[mailbox]
    filename = mailbox.py
    mail = yes
```

```yaml
sauna:
    filename: sauna.py
    mail_to: sauna@example.com

mailbox:
    filename: mailbox.py
    mail: 'yes'
```

A mail to `sauna@example.com` will only trigger the logic 'sauna'. Every other mail is process by the 'mailbox' logic.

## Usage

If a logic is triggered by this plugin it will set the trigger `source` to the from address and the `value` contains an [email object](http://docs.python.org/2.6/library/email.message.html).

See the [phonebook logic](https://github.com/smarthomeNG/smarthome/wiki/Phonebook) for a logic which is triggerd by IMAP.

## Functions

The SMTP object provides one function (sending) and you access without specifing a method name.
`sh.mail(to, subject, message)` e.g. `sh.mail('admin@smart.home', 'Rain: Help me', 'You could send UTF-8 encoded subjects and messages')`

Commit message:

mail: Added some gmail support

mail/README.md, after:

# Mail

## Requirements

This plugin has no requirements or dependencies.

## Configuration

### plugin.conf (deprecated) / plugin.yaml

```
[mail]
    class_name = SMTP
    class_path = plugins.mail
    host = mail.example.com
    mail_from = mail@example.com
    # ssl = False
    # username = False
    # password = False

[imap]
    class_name = IMAP
    class_path = plugins.mail
    host = mail.example.com
    username = smarthome
    password = secret
    # ssl = False
    # port = default
    # cycle = 300
```

```yaml
mail:
    class_name: SMTP
    class_path: plugins.mail
    host: mail.example.com
    mail_from: mail@example.com

# ssl = False
# username = False
# password = False
imap:
    class_name: IMAP
    class_path: plugins.mail
    host: mail.example.com
    username: smarthome
    password: secret
    # ssl = False
    # port = default
    # cycle = 300
```

#### Attributes
  * `host`: specifies the hostname of your mail server.
  * `port`: if you want to use a nonstandard port.
  * `username`/`password`: login information
  * `ssl`: specifies if you want to use SSL/TLS.
  * `mail_from`: for SMTP you have to specify an origin mail address.
  * `cycle`: for IMAP you could specify the intervall how often the inbox is checked

### items.conf (deprecated) / items.yaml

There is no item specific configuration.

### logic.conf (deprecated) / logic.yaml

You could assign the following keywords to a logic. The matching order is as listed.

#### mail_subject

If the incoming mail subject matches the value of this key the logic will be triggerd.

#### mail_to

If the mail is sent to specified address the logic will be triggerd.

If gmail is used, you can trigger multiple logics with one account - just extend email address 
with ['+' sign](https://gmail.googleblog.com/2008/03/2-hidden-ways-to-get-more-from-your.html) 
(eg use `myaccount+logicname@gmail.com` to trigger `logicname`)

For safety reasons, use only dedicated gmail account with this plugin and filter out messages 
from unkown senders (eg create filter `from:(-my_trusted_mail@example.com)` with action archive 
or delete)
  

#### mail

A genric flag to trigger the logic on receiving a mail.

Attention:
   * You could only call one logic per mail!
   * If a mail is processed by a logic it will be delteted (moved to Deleted folder).
   * There is no email security. You have to use an infrastructure which provides security (e.g. own mail server which only accepts authenticated messages for the inbox).

```
[sauna]
    filename = sauna.py
    mail_to = sauna@example.com

[mailbox]
    filename = mailbox.py
    mail = yes
```

```yaml
sauna:
    filename: sauna.py
    mail_to: sauna@example.com

mailbox:
    filename: mailbox.py
    mail: 'yes'
```

A mail to `sauna@example.com` will only trigger the logic 'sauna'. Every other mail is process by the 'mailbox' logic.

## Usage

If a logic is triggered by this plugin it will set the trigger `source` to the from address and the `value` contains an [email object](http://docs.python.org/2.6/library/email.message.html).

See the [phonebook logic](https://github.com/smarthomeNG/smarthome/wiki/Phonebook) for a logic which is triggerd by IMAP.

## Functions

The SMTP object provides one function (sending) and you access without specifing a method name.
`sh.mail(to, subject, message)` e.g. `sh.mail('admin@smart.home', 'Rain: Help me', 'You could send UTF-8 encoded subjects and messages')`
