dblog/README.md, before:

# DbLog

Use this plugin to store the log of item values into a database. It supports
different databases which provides a [Python DB API 2](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0249/)
implementation (e.g. [SQLite](http://docs.python.org/3.2/library/sqlite3.html)
which is already bundled with Python or MySQL by using a
[implementation module](https://wiki.python.org/moin/MySQL)).

Before you can use any of the database implementation please make sure to
register them in the common configuration file `smarthome.conf`. Details
see [configuration page](http://mknx.github.io/smarthome/config.html).

It will create the following tables:

  * Table `item` - the item table contains all items and thier last known value
  * Table `log` - the history log of the item values

The `item` table contains the following columns:

  * Column `id` - a unique ID which is incremented by one for each new item
  * Column `name` - the item's ID / name
  * Column `time` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of last change
  * Column `val_str` - the string value if type is `str`
  * Column `val_num` - the number value if type is `num`
  * Column `val_bool` - the boolean value if type is `bool`
  * Column `changed` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of record change

The `log` table contains the following columns:

  * Column `time` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of value
  * Column `item_id` - the reference to the unique ID in `item` table
  * Column `val_str` - the string value if type is `str`
  * Column `val_num` - the number value if type is `num`
  * Column `val_bool` - the boolean value if type is `bool`
  * Column `changed` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of record change

# Requirements

If you want to log to a given database system you need to install the right
Python DB API 2 implementation of the database and register them by adding it
to the `smarthome.conf` configuration file.

After this you can use them by referencing the alias name of the database
registration.

# Configuration

## plugin.conf

<pre>
[dblog]
    class_name = DbLog
    class_path = plugins.dblog
    db = sqlite
    connect = database:/path/to/log.db | check_same_thread:0
    #name = default
    #prefix = log
</pre>

The following attributes can be used in the plugin configuration:

   * `db` - specifies the type of database to use by using an alias (register
     them in `smarthome.conf`)
   * `connect` - specifies the connection parameters which is directly
     used to invoke the `connect()` function of the DB API 2 implementation
     (for SQLite lookup [here](http://docs.python.org/3.2/library/sqlite3.html#sqlite3.connect),
     other databases depends on implementation)
   * `name` - if you register multiple dblog instances you can use the `dblog`
     setting on item and use the name of the plugin
   * `prefix` - if you want to log into an existing database with other tables
     you can specify a prefix for the plugins' tables

## items.conf

The plugin supports the types `str`, `num` and `bool` which can be logged
into the database.

### dblog
This attribute enables the database logging when set. Just use the name of
the registered dblog plugin instance (see `name` attribute above).

<pre>
[some]
    [[item]]
        type = num
        dblog = default
</pre>


# Functions
This plugin adds functions to retrieve data for items.

## sh.item.db(function, start, end='now')
Function like the SQLite plugin is registering: this method returns you a value
for the specified function and timeframe.

Supported functions are:

   * `avg`: for the average value
   * `max`: for the maximum value
   * `min`: for the minimum value
   * `on`: percentage (as float from 0.00 to 1.00) where the value has been greater than 0.

For the timeframe you have to specify a start point and a optional end point. By default it ends 'now'.
The time point could be specified with `<number><interval>`, where interval could be:

   * `i`: minute
   * `h`: hour
   * `d`: day
   * `w`: week
   + `m`: month
   * `y`: year

e.g.
<pre>
sh.outside.temperature.db('min', '1d')  # returns the minimum temperature within the last day
sh.outside.temperature.db('avg', '2w', '1w')  # returns the average temperature of the week before last week
</pre>

## sh.item.series(function, start, end='now', count=100)
This method returns historical values for the specified function and timeframe.

Supported functions and timeframes are same as supported in the `db` function.

e.g.
<pre>
sh.outside.temperature.series('min', '1d', count=10)  # returns 10 minimum values within the last day
sh.outside.temperature.series('avg', '2w', '1w')  # returns the average values of the week before last week
</pre>

## sh.item.dblog
This property returns the associated `dblog` plugin instance. See the list of method below
to know what you can do with this instance.

e.g.
<pre>
dblog = sh.outside.temperature.dblog         # get associated dblog instance
</pre>

## dblog.id(item)
This method returns the ID in the database for the given item.

e.g.
<pre>
dblog = sh.outside.temperature.dblog         # get associated dblog instance
dblog.id(sh.outside.temperature)             # returns the ID for the given item
</pre>

## dblog.db()
This method will return the associated database connection object. This can
be used to execute native query, but you should use the plugin methods below.
The database connection object can be used for locking.

<pre>
dblog = sh.outside.temperature.dblog         # get associated dblog instance
dblog.db().lock()                            # lock the connection for processing
... do something
dblog.db().release()                         # release lock again after processing
</pre>

### dblog.insertLog(id, time, duration=0, val=None, it=None, changed=None, cur=None)
This method will insert a new log entry for the given item with the following
data (in the `log` database table):
* `id` - the item ID to insert an item for
* `time` - the timestamp (in microseconds) to record the log for
* `duration` - the amount of time to record the given value for
* `val` - the value to record
* `it` - the item type / type of value as string (e.g. 'str', 'num', 'bool')
* `changed` - the timestamp (in microseconds) when the change was created
* `cur` - specifies an existing cursor

### dblog.updateLog(id, time, duration=0, val=None, it=None, changed=None, cur=None)
This method will update an existing log entry (in the `log` database table)
identified by item id and time. See `insertLog()` method for the details of the
parameters.

### dblog.readLog(id, time, cur = None)
This method will read existing log data for given item and time.

### dblog.deleteLog(id, time = None, time_start = None, time_end = None, changed = None, changed_start = None, changed_end = None, cur = None)
This method will delete the given items identified by the given parameters. If
you omit the parameters it will completely ignored.

* `id` - the item ID to delete items for
* `time` - the timestamp (in microseconds) to delete the log for
* `time_start` / `time_end` - can be used instead of `time` parameter to specify a time range
* `changed` - the timestamp (in microseconds) of changed value to delete
* `changed_start` / `changed_end` - can be used instead of `changed` parameter to specify a time range
* `cur` - specifies an existing cursor

e.g.
<pre>
dblog.deleteLog(1)            # delete ALL log entries for item 1
dblog.deleteLog(1, 12345)     # delete log entry for item 1 and timestamp 12345
</pre>

### dblog.updateItem(id, time, duration=0, val=None, it=None, changed=None, cur=None)
This method will register the given value as the last/current value of the
item (in the `item` database table).

Commit message:

- add new dblog_acl attribute to specify if changes on the items will be logged to database or not # usually you want to store item changes into the database and want to read them # later - in some cases, especially when generating data from external systems, # it would be useful to just be able to read the values from the database, but also # read and update the item value / current status without modifying the underlying # database records

dblog/README.md, after:

# DbLog

Use this plugin to store the log of item values into a database. It supports
different databases which provides a [Python DB API 2](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0249/)
implementation (e.g. [SQLite](http://docs.python.org/3.2/library/sqlite3.html)
which is already bundled with Python or MySQL by using a
[implementation module](https://wiki.python.org/moin/MySQL)).

Before you can use any of the database implementation please make sure to
register them in the common configuration file `smarthome.conf`. Details
see [configuration page](http://mknx.github.io/smarthome/config.html).

It will create the following tables:

  * Table `item` - the item table contains all items and thier last known value
  * Table `log` - the history log of the item values

The `item` table contains the following columns:

  * Column `id` - a unique ID which is incremented by one for each new item
  * Column `name` - the item's ID / name
  * Column `time` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of last change
  * Column `val_str` - the string value if type is `str`
  * Column `val_num` - the number value if type is `num`
  * Column `val_bool` - the boolean value if type is `bool`
  * Column `changed` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of record change

The `log` table contains the following columns:

  * Column `time` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of value
  * Column `item_id` - the reference to the unique ID in `item` table
  * Column `val_str` - the string value if type is `str`
  * Column `val_num` - the number value if type is `num`
  * Column `val_bool` - the boolean value if type is `bool`
  * Column `changed` - the unix timestamp in microseconds of record change

# Requirements

If you want to log to a given database system you need to install the right
Python DB API 2 implementation of the database and register them by adding it
to the `smarthome.conf` configuration file.

After this you can use them by referencing the alias name of the database
registration.

# Configuration

## plugin.conf

<pre>
[dblog]
    class_name = DbLog
    class_path = plugins.dblog
    db = sqlite
    connect = database:/path/to/log.db | check_same_thread:0
    #name = default
    #prefix = log
</pre>

The following attributes can be used in the plugin configuration:

   * `db` - specifies the type of database to use by using an alias (register
     them in `smarthome.conf`)
   * `connect` - specifies the connection parameters which is directly
     used to invoke the `connect()` function of the DB API 2 implementation
     (for SQLite lookup [here](http://docs.python.org/3.2/library/sqlite3.html#sqlite3.connect),
     other databases depends on implementation)
   * `name` - if you register multiple dblog instances you can use the `dblog`
     setting on item and use the name of the plugin
   * `prefix` - if you want to log into an existing database with other tables
     you can specify a prefix for the plugins' tables

## items.conf

The plugin supports the types `str`, `num` and `bool` which can be logged
into the database.

### dblog
This attribute enables the database logging when set. Just use the name of
the registered dblog plugin instance (see `name` attribute above).

<pre>
[some]
    [[item]]
        type = num
        dblog = default
        #dblog_acl = rw
</pre>

### dblog_acl
Specifies if the dblog plugin should be used for read only or read and write values (which is
the default). Sometimes you only want to use the database to read values from and just ignore
changes on the items and do not populate them to the database. Useful if you generate the
database data by external modules, but want still able to change the items to reflect the
current state.

Use "rw" to specify that changes will also populate to the database, use "ro" to simple ignore
changes on the items and do not populate them to the database. Only read items from the database
when using the methods described below for retrieving data.

# Functions
This plugin adds functions to retrieve data for items.

## sh.item.db(function, start, end='now')
Function like the SQLite plugin is registering: this method returns you a value
for the specified function and timeframe.

Supported functions are:

   * `avg`: for the average value
   * `max`: for the maximum value
   * `min`: for the minimum value
   * `on`: percentage (as float from 0.00 to 1.00) where the value has been greater than 0.

For the timeframe you have to specify a start point and a optional end point. By default it ends 'now'.
The time point could be specified with `<number><interval>`, where interval could be:

   * `i`: minute
   * `h`: hour
   * `d`: day
   * `w`: week
   + `m`: month
   * `y`: year

e.g.
<pre>
sh.outside.temperature.db('min', '1d')  # returns the minimum temperature within the last day
sh.outside.temperature.db('avg', '2w', '1w')  # returns the average temperature of the week before last week
</pre>

## sh.item.series(function, start, end='now', count=100)
This method returns historical values for the specified function and timeframe.

Supported functions and timeframes are same as supported in the `db` function.

e.g.
<pre>
sh.outside.temperature.series('min', '1d', count=10)  # returns 10 minimum values within the last day
sh.outside.temperature.series('avg', '2w', '1w')  # returns the average values of the week before last week
</pre>

## sh.item.dblog
This property returns the associated `dblog` plugin instance. See the list of method below
to know what you can do with this instance.

e.g.
<pre>
dblog = sh.outside.temperature.dblog         # get associated dblog instance
</pre>

## dblog.id(item)
This method returns the ID in the database for the given item.

e.g.
<pre>
dblog = sh.outside.temperature.dblog         # get associated dblog instance
dblog.id(sh.outside.temperature)             # returns the ID for the given item
</pre>

## dblog.db()
This method will return the associated database connection object. This can
be used to execute native query, but you should use the plugin methods below.
The database connection object can be used for locking.

<pre>
dblog = sh.outside.temperature.dblog         # get associated dblog instance
dblog.db().lock()                            # lock the connection for processing
... do something
dblog.db().release()                         # release lock again after processing
</pre>

### dblog.insertLog(id, time, duration=0, val=None, it=None, changed=None, cur=None)
This method will insert a new log entry for the given item with the following
data (in the `log` database table):
* `id` - the item ID to insert an item for
* `time` - the timestamp (in microseconds) to record the log for
* `duration` - the amount of time to record the given value for
* `val` - the value to record
* `it` - the item type / type of value as string (e.g. 'str', 'num', 'bool')
* `changed` - the timestamp (in microseconds) when the change was created
* `cur` - specifies an existing cursor

### dblog.updateLog(id, time, duration=0, val=None, it=None, changed=None, cur=None)
This method will update an existing log entry (in the `log` database table)
identified by item id and time. See `insertLog()` method for the details of the
parameters.

### dblog.readLog(id, time, cur = None)
This method will read existing log data for given item and time.

### dblog.deleteLog(id, time = None, time_start = None, time_end = None, changed = None, changed_start = None, changed_end = None, cur = None)
This method will delete the given items identified by the given parameters. If
you omit the parameters it will completely ignored.

* `id` - the item ID to delete items for
* `time` - the timestamp (in microseconds) to delete the log for
* `time_start` / `time_end` - can be used instead of `time` parameter to specify a time range
* `changed` - the timestamp (in microseconds) of changed value to delete
* `changed_start` / `changed_end` - can be used instead of `changed` parameter to specify a time range
* `cur` - specifies an existing cursor

e.g.
<pre>
dblog.deleteLog(1)            # delete ALL log entries for item 1
dblog.deleteLog(1, 12345)     # delete log entry for item 1 and timestamp 12345
</pre>

### dblog.updateItem(id, time, duration=0, val=None, it=None, changed=None, cur=None)
This method will register the given value as the last/current value of the
item (in the `item` database table).
